---
layout: post
title: Lego Mindstorms
download-link: 
download-alt:  
date: 2016-02-02
img: lego_main.png
alt: lego-robot
category: robots
description: 
tags: [linux,ubuntu,open source]
article: yes

---

The Lego Mindstorms series of kits contain software and hardware to create customizable and programmable robots. They include an intelligent brick computer that controls the system, a set of modular sensors and motors, and Lego parts from the Technic line to create the mechanical systems.

## Description

My first robot built with Lego was a _humanoid robot_ (<b><i>Figure 1</i></b>) in which I implemented a walking.

{% include image.html url="portfolio/lego_humanoid.png" description="<b><i>Figure 1</i></b>: humanoid robot." %}

I also built a robot for the _Teleoperation and Telepresence_ subject at the Master Degree in Robotics and Automation. This robot was a teleoperated manipulator (<b><i>Figure 2</i></b>) with a 3-axis gyroscope sensor as a remote control.

{% include image.html url="portfolio/lego_hand.png" description="<b><i>Figure 2</i></b>: teleoperated robotic manipulator." %}

My last robot was a four wheels car (<b><i>Figure 3</i></b>) that I built along with my team for the _Mobile Robots_ subject also in the Master degree. For this robot we design from the scratch a robotic car using the Lego design program. After that, we developed a real and simulated system for mapping environments based in ROS.

{% include image.html url="portfolio/lego_car.png" description="<b><i>Figure 3</i></b>: four wheels car" %}

Here is a video showing how the robot works producing a map in real-time using ROS.

{% include video.html url="//www.youtube.com/embed/2d_J1ktsd6A" %}
